FEATURE:  GCLOUD DEPLOY IN GKE (#406)
devonfw/hangar: documentation/src/common_templates/setup-deploy-pipeline.asciidoc

endif::[]
The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/{path_provider}/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create the new branch, create a deploy pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for the project manifests files, create the Pull Request, and if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.

== Prerequisites

* This script will commit and push the corresponding YAML template into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled the latest changes with `git pull`).

* The YAML containing Deployment object should be named `application-deployment.yaml` for allowing automated `imagePullSecret` injection.

== Creating the {pipeline_type} using provided script

=== Usage
[subs=attributes+]
```
pipeline_generator.sh \
  -c <config file path> \
  -n <pipeline name> \
  -d <project local path> \
  --package-pipeline-name <pipeline name> \
  --env-provision-pipeline-name <pipeline name> \
  --k8s-provider <provider name> \
  --k8s-namespace <namespace> \
  --k8s-deploy-files-path <manifests path> \
  [--k8s-image-pull-secret-name <secret name>] \
  [-b <branch>] \
ifndef::no-PR-or-MR[  [-w]]

> ifdef::machineType[  [-m <machine type for {pipeline_type} runner>]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ifeval::["{provider}" == "Google Cloud"]
machineType[  [-m <machine type for {pipeline_type} runner>]]
endif::[]
```

-n  --pipeline-name                 [Required] Name that will be set to the pipeline.
-d  --local-directory               [Required] Local directory of your project.
    --package-pipeline-name         [Required] Package pipeline name.
    --env-provision-pipeline-name   [Required] Environment provisioning pipeline name.
    --k8s-provider                  [Required] Kubernetes cluster provider name. Accepted values: EKS, AKS.
    --k8s-namespace                 [Required] Kubernetes namespace where the application will be deployed.
    --k8s-deploy-files-path         [Required] Path from the root of the project to the YAML manifests directory.
    --k8s-image-pull-secret-name    Name for the generated secret containing registry credentials. Required when using a private registry to host images.
-b  --target-branch                            Name of the branch to which the Pull Request will target. PR is not created if the flag is not provided.
ifndef::no-PR-or-MR[-w                                             Open the Pull Request on the web browser if it cannot be automatically merged. Requires -b flag.]

> ifdef::machineType[-m, --machine-type                             Machine type for {pipeline_type} runner. Accepted values: E2_HIGHCPU_8, E2_HIGHCPU_32, N1_HIGHCPU_8, N1_HIGHCPU_32.]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ifeval::["{provider}" == "Google Cloud"]
machineType[-m, --machine-type                             Machine type for {pipeline_type} runner. Accepted values: E2_HIGHCPU_8, E2_HIGHCPU_32, N1_HIGHCPU_8, N1_HIGHCPU_32.]
endif::[]
```

```

=== Examples
[subs=attributes+]
```
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/deploy/deploy-pipeline.cfg -n quarkus-project-deploy -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project --package-pipeline-name quarkus-project-package --env-provision-pipeline-name eks-provisioning --k8s-provider EKS --k8s-namespace hangar --k8s-deploy-files-path k8s -b develop {openBrowserFlag}
```

=== Appendix: accessing the application

Once the {pipeline_type} is executed and your application is deployed, you can list the hostname to access it with:

```

> kubectl get ingress -n <namespace>

Reviewer: Where is 'kubectl' supposed to be installed? local, remote?

Author: Local machine, but this is just an appendix to get the hostname, do we need to explained that kubec

The creation of the pipeline will follow the project workflow, so a new branch named `feature/deploy-pipeline` will be created and the YAML file for the pipeline will be pushed to it.

ifndef::no-PR-or-MR[]
Then, a Pull Request (PR) will be created in order to merge the new branch into the appropriate branch (provided in `-b` flag). The PR will be automatically merged if the repository policies are met. If the merge is not possible, either the PR URL will be shown as output, or it will be opened in your web browser if using `-w` flag.

endif::[]
ifdef::no-PR-or-MR[]
Then, the new branch will be merged into the appropriate branch (provided in `-b` flag).

endif::[]

> The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/{path_provider}/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create the new branch, create a deploy pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for the project manifests files, create the Pull Request, and if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/{path_provider}/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create the new branch, create a deploy {pipeline_type} based on a YAML template appropriate for the project manifests files, create the Pull Request, and if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.

```

== Prerequisites

* This script will commit and push the corresponding YAML template into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled the latest changes with `git pull`).

* The YAML containing Deployment object should be named `application-deployment.yaml` for allowing automated `imagePullSecret` injection.

== Creating the {pipeline_type} using provided script

=== Usage
[subs=attributes+]
```
pipeline_generator.sh \
  -c <config file path> \

>   -n <pipeline name> \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  -n <{pipeline_type} name> \
```

  -d <project local path> \

>   --package-pipeline-name <pipeline name> \
>   --env-provision-pipeline-name <pipeline name> \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  --package-pipeline-name <{pipeline_type} name> \
  --env-provision-pipeline-name <{pipeline_type} name> \
```

  --k8s-provider <provider name> \
  --k8s-namespace <namespace> \
  --k8s-deploy-files-path <manifests path> \
  [--k8s-image-pull-secret-name <secret name>] \
  [-b <branch>] \
ifndef::no-PR-or-MR[  [-w]]
ifeval::["{provider}" == "Google Cloud"]
machineType[  [-m <machine type for {pipeline_type} runner>]]
endif::[]
```

> NOTE:  The config file for the deploy pipeline is located at `/scripts/pipelines/{path_provider}/templates/deploy/deploy-pipeline.cfg`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE:  The config file for the deploy {pipeline_type} is located at `/scripts/pipelines/{path_provider}/templates/deploy/deploy-pipeline.cfg`.
```

=== Flags
[subs=attributes+]
```

> -c  --config-file                   [Required] Configuration file containing pipeline definition.
> -n  --pipeline-name                 [Required] Name that will be set to the pipeline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-c  --config-file                   [Required] Configuration file containing {pipeline_type} definition.
-n  --pipeline-name                 [Required] Name that will be set to the {pipeline_type}.
```

-d  --local-directory               [Required] Local directory of your project.

>     --package-pipeline-name         [Required] Package pipeline name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    --package-pipeline-name         [Required] Package {pipeline_type} name.
```

>     --env-provision-pipeline-name   [Required] Environment provisioning pipeline name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    --env-provision-pipeline-name   [Required] Environment provisioning {pipeline_type} name.
```

    --k8s-provider                  [Required] Kubernetes cluster provider name. Accepted values: EKS, AKS.
    --k8s-namespace                 [Required] Kubernetes namespace where the application will be deployed.
    --k8s-deploy-files-path         [Required] Path from the root of the project to the YAML manifests directory.

>     --k8s-image-pull-secret-name    Name for the generated secret containing registry credentials. Required when using a private registry to host images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    --k8s-image-pull-secret-name               Name for the generated secret containing registry credentials. Required when using a private registry to host images.

```

-b  --target-branch                            Name of the branch to which the Pull Request will target. PR is not created if the flag is not provided.
ifndef::no-PR-or-MR[-w                                             Open the Pull Request on the web browser if it cannot be automatically merged. Requires -b flag.]
ifeval::["{provider}" == "Google Cloud"]
machineType[-m, --machine-type                             Machine type for {pipeline_type} runner. Accepted values: E2_HIGHCPU_8, E2_HIGHCPU_32, N1_HIGHCPU_8, N1_HIGHCPU_32.]
endif::[]
```

=== Examples
[subs=attributes+]
```
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/deploy/deploy-pipeline.cfg -n quarkus-project-deploy -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project --package-pipeline-name quarkus-project-package --env-provision-pipeline-name eks-provisioning --k8s-provider EKS --k8s-namespace hangar --k8s-deploy-files-path k8s -b develop {openBrowserFlag}
```

=== Appendix: accessing the application

> Once the {pipeline_type} is executed and your application is deployed, you can list the hostname to access it with: (from your local machine)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the {pipeline_type} is executed and your application is deployed, you can list the hostname to access it by running locally:
```
